Brute force
A type of cyber attack.
for example, entering a website that requires a password,
Brute force will hack the password using guesses.
loging with Many passwords, generaly from a wordlist, until it succeeds.
the usernames, can either be known from before, and sometimes are also being guessed.

There are two different matters, two strategies about dealing with the attack.
1 How to prevent such an attack
2 How to catch that such an attack is happening or has happened in the past.

Prevention is done in several forms. I divided it into 3 topics
1 Make it difficult for the attacker to guess the password.
Whether it's by using strong passwords,
Creating a delay between login attempts so guesses take a long time(brute force is an expensive attack in terms of time consuming)
2 Require additional identification
For example MFA multi factor authtintication by the user.
CAPTCHA, a test that differentiate between a human user and a bot
3 Identification of the attacker
For example, blocking suspicious IPs, making black lists.

catching the brute force attack is what i am asked here.
There are various signs that distinguish a legitimate user from an attacker
First of all, to understand what is happening, it is necessary to listen to network traffic, and record it
This information can be analyzed to understand if there are any attack attempts (past or present)
An attack can be more sophisticated and then it will be more difficult to detect

In the case of a bot that tries multiple passwords from a list, there will be multiple login attempts from the same IP in a short time
Also, if the time delta between login attempts is equal, it is a suspicous sign of an attack
another sign for a bruteforce pattern is the passwords that are being used in the login attemps. 
if the passwords are common and easy to guess, it may be beacuse they are being sended from a wordlist specificated for a bruteforce attack.

The attacks can be more sophisticated, and it is still possible to identify patterns that reveal that there is abnormal activity.
for detecting such patterns there should be a a continuous learning process, analyzing attacks and recording network traffic.
